---
title: My First Blog Post
---

Hi, welcome to [autorefactorer.com](http://autorefactorer.com), my personal
blog for tracking my computer science musings, big life moments, and whatever
else I feel like posting here.

This is my first-ever blog, so please bear with me while I learn how to write
in such a format. This post will not be very long, serving mostly as an example
for myself on how to use [hakyll](https://jaspervdj.be/hakyll/), a haskell
library for compiling static sites. It seemed perfect for a blog like this one,
and since it also gives me a little more hands-on experience with haskell and
its ecosystem, I thought it was a pretty great candidate.

This is my second night playing around with hakyll and its various facilities,
but I'll admit that the amount of time I've spent on distractions - configuring
bash, vim, etc. to display color-formatted text on my macbook; creating a
profile on [keybase.io](https://www.keybase.io) to authenticate my identity on
this site, as well as on various other social media; reading about what web
server to use for hosting this site - has been substantial. I do not regret
these sidetracks; on the contrary, this site is meant to be a project
organized/managed in a way that is entirely heterodox to what you might find in
a corporate software environment.

I have nothing against the various corporate methodologies - in fact, I quite
like those under the Agile umbrella. These corporate strategies are great for
managing a pipeline of work on a timely schedule, and that's important. This 
site, however, is meant to be a creative passtime - something for me to do as a
way to explore my own interests and pick up some experience in new tools along
the way. Where sidetracking can add up to some large dollars and cents on a
corporate project, here it is an important part of my learning process; so long
as I can at least trace back to the site and see some added value (whether that
be from learning about a new concept, or simply fixing a bug on the web host),
I'm perfectly content to call a sidetrack 'progress'.

Let this post be a promise, then, to myself, not to take this blog too
seriously, and to have fun by letting myself go down all kinds of other paths,
learning along the way.
